---
---
Have you ever stopped to wonder what motivates successful people to keep moving forward? _Mindset_ by Carol Dweck sets to explain this and other principles behind great minds. Through her extensive research with children and adults alike, she has narrowed down key concepts to help us unlock this success for ourselves. Her book introduces two opposing sides, growth and fixed, which can be nutured in people to produce very different results. I intend to explain these principles and some of my own personal experiences, to ilitrate how Carol Dweck's work is impactful to our lives. 

We tend to be a society of compliment giviers, where people love to hear small bits of praise quite often. Expecially, I would argue, in our Gen X and Gen Y demographics. Getting praise can make us feel motivated, and when done correctly can sometimes benfit our production and growth. However, some compliements can sound great in the moment but can be hard to live up to in the long term. Take for example "you're so smart" or "you're a natural". They sound nice but they often set expectations that are unrealistic. For example, when I was growing up my father used to tell me to "Dream Big" because "I'm a Mattiko!" My family expected a lot, and they expected me to be somoene really "special". My siblings are all much older and by being the baby, I got almost everyone's ideas about who I should be. My sibling went before me to have pretty fantastic careers. These things reinforced the "because you are a Mattiko" mentality. After I got a little older, this particular expectation from family started to feel like a burden. Anytime I wasn't doing something _huge_ I felt like I wasn't meeting some particular ideal. Although, this was never said outloud, it was often implied. This is an example of what we might call the fixed mindset. 

The fixed mindset revolves around the idea that you are who you are because of internal skills. Either you are "good" at some particular thing or your are "bad" at that particular thing. By labling eachother and ourselves with specific set skills and expectations, we are fixed into a certain pattern. Think about the expectations put on a kid who is told he is 'smart' in grade school. If he, all of a sudden, fails a test or struggles with a topic his reality changes. What he believes to be true, that he is smart, is questioned because he has a moment of challenge. This could push him to do something like take easier classes to ensure his reputation stays in-tact. 

But don't worry, the growth mindset is here to save the day! It is a way for us to change the kind of motivation we feed ourselves and others. This is the healthier choice for our minds, and can be energizing when done correctly. Growth mindset is about gaining skills and knowledge without bias. Learning to be succesful becomes the choice of the individuals. Instead of focusing on inherent skill level, it recognizes progress and hard work. If a person would like to become a rocket-scientist, for instance, they can succeed with proper motivation, clear action plans, and drive to learn.. Growth mindset, also lets indviduals be sucessful at thier own rate. Someone might need a little more or a little less time to get to the same place, but ultimatly both have the ability to end up there. 

This for me relates direcetly to my new experience of learning at The Iron Yard. I have heard it from my friends and family already. My brother said to me "Coding is really hard", "Are you even good at math?", and "Why don't you just learn it online instead of spending so much money" all within the same visit. He wanted his expectations to become my expectations. He wanted me to be 'fixed' into a certain mental picture he had of me, or himself. I'm glad to say that although this gave me about five minuets of pause, I knew myself better. By doing the research on growth vs fixed mindset, it only further reinforces my resolution to making this career change. I have a growth mindset and I know that if I give it my all, every day, that I will eventually see my goals to fruition. I am excited to learn and my brian is open to new learning. By looking at this experience as a whole process, I am open to the challenges and opportunities it brings. I won't be shut down because I'm going off some unrealistic vision of myself, I will continue because I want to grow. 




-- rough draft --

Carol Dweck has spent substantial time researching learning mindsets and how they impact the world around us. She has coined the "Growth vs. Fixed Mindset" which sheds light on how we are trained as learners from a very early age. This information is pertinent not only to school aged children but can also be influential for adults as well. By understanding these basic principles we can help ourselves and others feel more fulfilled when they are faced with new challenges.
We've probably all heard a compliment over the years along the lines of "You are so smart" or "Your a natural at that". We have come to often think of these types of comments as really positive and are saught after. People often fish for these types of comments because they want to feel as though they are somehow different from the rest, or set apart. The issue with these types of comments is that rarely do things actually come "natually." How often has something just fallen in your lap with minimal effort? It also tends to sets us up for failure when things do not just "fall into place." If you tell me I'm a natural today and then tomorrow I struggle, amd I a different person? It can cause some people to feel a sort of personal shortcoming and can stunt the learning process. An example of this for me came when I started my corporate facilitation career. I was surrounded by extroverted people, excited chattering in our Facilitation 101 class. THe instructor very clearly laid out that being "boisterous and carismatic" were the way to be succesfull in that career. I, as an introverted and more technically minded person felt instantly put off. What if this wasn't the right job for me or I didn't have the right "inherent skill set." It turned out I had the talents necessary, but if I had only listened to that one instructor I may have never continued down the path I took out of fear I wasn't good enough in some way. 
Growth Mindset, on the other hand, sets us up for better success. It encourages us to believe that skills are earned, not just given at random. For me this feels very refreshing because the world is yours to take! If you want to be excellent at something it is within your reach, you just have to work very hard to get there. It might take time and some agony, but the world is within your reach. This is a great equalizer because it gives anyone with enough motivation to be whatever they want to be regardless of preconcieved notions. 
The experience of Iron Yard is a very challenging one. THis is a great time to apply the benifits of the Growth Mindset over the Fixed Mindset. People may have certain ideas about code schools, women in technology, skills required, and abilities to apply learning. My own brother, for instance...



1. Introduction- 
  * Basic breakdown of the concepts behind growth/fixed mindset
  * The importance of implimenting a learning growth mindset
2. Fixed Mindset
  * Define the fixed mindset, praise given for inherent talent and skills
  * Where issues lie with this mindset
  * Example from becoming a trainer, Rodger "you are too introverted to succeed in this type of role" leading to insecurities of not having the right "talents"
3. Growth Mindset
  * Define Growth Mindset
  * How we can appreciate learning, we are responsible for shown efforts
4. Conclusion
  * Joining Iron Yard, negative/skeptical recpetion from my brother
  * Ability to apply a growth mindset, "I can do what I put my mind to" energy
  * Effectiveness of slowly and reliably putting one foot in front of the next
