This past weekend we got the opportunity to work on a 6-day team project. Then we were each given the opportunity to lead the team. Sound fun? How about when I tell you the leadership changed every day and that that our team was as diverse as they come. 

I have quite a bit of leadership experience and I have been the leader of many teams, probably somewhere in the hundreds. This was a skill that I honed over time with much effort. I've learned that personalities have a lot to do with how a team interacts. If the team is too alike or different it can bring up conflict. Also, in the past I was often the leader or else I followed someone with years of experience. I learned that most adults need to respect those that they follow and it is better to be an facilitator of a group rather than play the part of micro-manager. 

One of the bigger challenges we faced on our team project probably isn't a suprise. We had to keep changing the leader. I generally am as comfortable following as much as leading, but I do want to understand the decisions being made. I actually enjoy following someone who sets clear expectations because I don't always like to make decisions. However, inconsistency and murky communication are difficult. Following directions I don't fully understand is difficult for me. 

In our group I was the third person of three to lead. The first two leaders had different ideas on how we should approach the issue. Our first leader gave us a "whatever you think" approach, which at the time was fine. Each of us were already used to doing individual projects so it was no big deal. Our second leader had strong ideas on how to lead but struggled with communicating the expectations. I found myself trying to follow instruction and complete given tasks only to find out that wasn't really what the leader expected me to complete. By the time it was my turn to lead our group was spinning. 

Too many different leadership styles can cause inconsistent code, frustration with communication, a lack of a future plan, and less work completed. To be honest, my own leadership skills didn't help much at this point. I felt the frustration too. I am used to either being lead by myself or senior management with years of comparable experience. I let personalities and lack of clarity to get under my skin, and a lack of sleep did not help.

Ultimately, our group opted for a more democratic approach over the remaining three days of the project. Rather than having a specific lead we tried to talk as a group. This seemed to help balance everyone out and we accomplished quite a bit of our work in the end. Also, as it often does, talking about our experiences helped. No one had intended to cause trouble for our group, we just had very different approaches to the same problem. 

This was a very valuable learning experience for me personally.
